readme.md, before:

# ai_girlfriend

Again, the name is a joke. I just wanted to see if I could use rust to wire up Whisper, an LLM and a TTS engine (Piper in this instance) to create a local version of the voice call that chat gpt and a lot of the other big ai companies have.

Turns out with the power of ai, anything is possible. (A fair amount of this was written by Claude and ol' gipity tho that didn't stop me from learning from this experience.)

Anyway, as for models, I'm using [LFM2 8B Q8](https://huggingface.co/LiquidAI/LFM2-8B-A1B-GGUF) for the LLM because I have slow ram and no gpu acceleration (thanks nixos + integrated graphics).

This uses llama.cpp under the hood, so you'll need a gguf model. Sadly no safetensors here.

And Whisper I'm using just [ggml-base with a Q8 quant](https://huggingface.co/ggerganov/whisper.cpp/tree/main) as it runs a little better on my cpu.

As for the Piper voice, that's something I'm keeping to myself 😉 ([sourced from here tho](https://brycebeattie.com/files/tts/))

## Running

If you're normal, you may need [FFmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/) and [Piper](https://github.com/OHF-Voice/piper1-gpl) for the command calls.

Then just run

```shell
cargo run
```

---

If you like pain and snow flakes, it'll all be in the flake

```shell
nix develop
```

then

```
cargo run
```

## Commands

There are a few keyboard shortcuts that can help when she misunderstands you or your mum walks into the room

`m`: Will **m**ute the mic when it's listening.

`t`: Will enter **t**ext mode so you can send messages without using your mic.

`↑`: (up arrow) Will allow you to edit the last message sent.

`esc`: (escape key) Will cancel inference and delete the last message or cancel the current edit (down arrow also works for this).

## Configuration and Customization

Two files will need to be filled in before you can start.

1. `.env` - This should be fairly obvious, and I've even included an example to make your life easier.
2. `assistants.toml` - This is where you can set up and customize your many girlfrie... I mean assistants. There is an example one included so you know what options you have, but the only things that are required are a name and system prompt.

Commit message:

Added support for thinking models. Minor cargo and flake updates.

readme.md, after:

# ai_girlfriend

Again, the name is a joke. I just wanted to see if I could use rust to wire up Whisper, an LLM and a TTS engine (Piper in this instance) to create a local version of the voice call that chat gpt and a lot of the other big ai companies have.

Turns out with the power of ai, anything is possible. (A fair amount of this was written by Claude and ol' gipity tho that didn't stop me from learning from this experience.)

Anyway, as for models, I'm using [LFM2 8B Q8](https://huggingface.co/LiquidAI/LFM2-8B-A1B-GGUF) for the LLM because I have slow ram and no gpu acceleration (thanks nixos + integrated graphics).

This uses llama.cpp under the hood, so you'll need a gguf model. Sadly no safetensors here.

And Whisper I'm using just [ggml-base with a Q8 quant](https://huggingface.co/ggerganov/whisper.cpp/tree/main) as it runs a little better on my cpu.

As for the Piper voice, that's something I'm keeping to myself 😉 ([sourced from here tho](https://brycebeattie.com/files/tts/))

## Running

If you're normal, you may need [FFmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/) and [Piper](https://github.com/OHF-Voice/piper1-gpl) for the command calls.

Then just run

```shell
cargo run
```

---

If you like pain and snow flakes, it'll all be in the flake

```shell
nix develop
```

then

```
cargo run
```

## Commands

There are a few keyboard shortcuts that can help when she misunderstands you or your mum walks into the room

`m`: Will **m**ute the mic when it's listening.

`t`: Will enter **t**ext mode so you can send messages without using your mic.

`↑`: (up arrow) Will allow you to edit the last message sent.

`esc`: (escape key) Will cancel inference and delete the last message or cancel the current edit (down arrow also works for this).

`?`: (question mark) Will show thinking tags if you are using a thinking model.

## Configuration and Customization

Two files will need to be filled in before you can start.

1. `.env` - This should be fairly obvious, and I've even included an example to make your life easier.
2. `assistants.toml` - This is where you can set up and customize your many girlfrie... I mean assistants. There is an example one included so you know what options you have, but the only things that are required are a name and system prompt.
